==Role of the Transport layer==
The transport layer is responsible for the logical communication between applications running on different hosts
It acts as the link between the application layer and the lower layers that are responsible for network transmission.

1. Tracking Individual Conversations - Data flowing between source and dest applications is known as conversations
2. Segmenting data and re-assembling segments - The transport layer breaks large data streams into smaller manageable transport layer blocks (segments / datagrams)
3. Adding header information - Header information is used by dest host to reassemble the complete datastream, ensures 
4. Identifying applications - The transport layer identifies what application should receive which datastream using port numbers.
5. Conversation Multiplexing - Allowing other types of traffic to be interleaved into media to not use all bandwidth on one conversation.

--TCP--
TCP is known as a connection-orientated protocol as it establishes a connection to have a complete conversation, this provide the possibility for errorchecking, sending ack packets when datastreams re received. and resending packets that were not acknowledged.

--UDP--
UDP does not provide reliability and flow control therefore it requires less headers than TCP.
UDP is known as best effort, same as IP. This means data transmission is not guaranteed to be successful

UDP is utilised by applications that do not need guaranteed deliverance of data, but cannot tolerate delays.

--Additional TCP Functions--
Establishing Sessions - connection oriented protocol, establishing a permanent connection (session) between source and destination. devices negotiate the amount of traffic that can be transferred at a given time.
Ensuring Reliability - Ensures that every segment sent arrives at its destination
Same Order Deliver - re-orders packets that arrive at different times due to taking different pathways.
Flow Control - if a hosts resources are being overtaxed, TCP can request that sending applications reduce the data flow.

TCP is a stateful protocol - meaning it keeps track of the state of conversations. stateful sessions begin with a session establishment and end with session termination.

TCP adds 20 bytes (160 bits) worth of header information to application layer data.

--Port Numbers--
The combination of src ip + src port & dst ip + dst port is known as a socket

--Control Bits--
Control Bits located just after the reserved field indicate the status and progress of a TCP connection.
The control bits consist of six bits known as "flags" (flags are simply Boolean switches).

The 6 flags / control bits are:
URG - Urgent flag, signifies that this packet has priority for processing
ACK - Acknowledgment
PSH - Push function. Doesn't wait for the TCP stack buffer to fill before processing data. instead forwards all data stored within the buffer at that point in time.
RST - Reset the connection
SYN - Synchrnoise sequence numbers
FIN - Finish, gracefully shutdown the connection.

Sequence number is used for re-ordering and detecting missing packets.
An (ISN) Initial Sequence Number is established at the start of a connection and is the staring number used to increment every transferred byte.

--Acknowledgment--
The sequence number indicates the byte that is being sent
Acknowledgment umber indicates the next expected byte (sent by the server)

A new feature of SACK (Selective ACK) must be agreed upon during the 3 way handshake. it allows host processes to request only the packets that were missing and not also receive duplicates.
PCA - Transfer 10 segments
PCB - Received 8 / 10 (missing 3 + 4)
PCB -> ACK 3 (1+2) - SACK 5-10

--Flow Control--
TCP provides mechanisms for controlling the rate of data flow to reduce congestion.
This is accomplished utilising the 16 bit field called window size.

MSS = Maximum Segment Size (Bytes)

E.G.
During the 3 way handshake: window size = 10,000 | MSS = 1460

Window size determines the maximum amount of bytes sent before an acknowledgment is required.
The last byte PCA can send before having to wait for an acknowledgment is byte 10000. This is known as the send window. 

The window size is included within every tcp packet so that the destination host can alter the maximum window size at any time depending on buffer availability.

The destination host usually does not wait for the window size to fill before sending an acknowledgment and does it as it processes the data.

--Window Sliding--
A destination sending acknowledgments and the host adjusting the window size dynamically is known as window sliding.

To overcome the 16 bit window size limit (65,535)
A feature defined in RFC7323 known as Window Scale Option. allows for upto 1gb of data transfer.

--Maximum Segment Size (MSS)--
The typical MSS is 1460.

This is because the standard MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) for an ethernet interface is 1500 bytes.
1500b - 20b (tcp header) - 20b (ip header)

--User Datagram Protocol (UDP)--
Connectionless and unreliable. Does not establish a connection before sending data. Data is not reassembled due to the lack of a sequence and acknowledgment number.
Utilised for fast communications such as VoIP. 